include::../../../shared_content/secrets/description.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/rationale.adoc[]

=== What is the potential impact?

Azure Subscription Keys are used to authenticate and authorize access to Azure
resources and services. These keys are unique identifiers that are associated
with an Azure subscription and are used to control access to resources such as
virtual machines, storage accounts, and databases. Subscription keys are
typically used in API requests to Azure services, and they help ensure that only
authorized users and applications can access and modify resources within an
Azure subscription.

If an Azure Subscription Key is leaked to an unintended audience, it can pose a
significant security risk to the Azure subscription and the resources it
contains. An attacker who gains access to a subscription key can use it to
authenticate and access resources within the subscription, potentially causing
data breaches, data loss, or other malicious activities.

Depending on the level of access granted by the subscription key, an attacker
could potentially create, modify, or delete resources within the subscription,
or even take control of the entire subscription. This could result in
significant financial losses, reputational damage, and legal liabilities for the
organization that owns the subscription.

Therefore, it is important to protect Azure Subscription Keys and ensure that
they are only shared with authorized users and applications. Best practices for
protecting subscription keys include using secure storage mechanisms,
restricting access to the keys, and regularly rotating the keys to prevent
unauthorized access.

== How to fix it

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/revoke.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/recent_use.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/vault.adoc[]

=== Code examples

:example_secret: efbb1a98f026d061464af685cd16dcd3
:example_name: subscription_key
:example_env: SUBSCRIPTION_KEY

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/examples.adoc[]

//=== How does this work?

//=== Pitfalls

//=== Going the extra mile

== Resources

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/resources/standards.adoc[]

//=== Benchmarks
