Custom roles that provide the same level of permissions as `Owner` might
indicate a configuration issue. Any entity assigned with it can perform any
action on the `Subscription` or `Management group`, including changing roles and
permissions.

If the affected role is unexpectedly assigned to users, they can compromise the
affected scope. They can do so in the long term by assigning dangerous roles to
other users or entities.

Depending on the scope to which the role is assignable, the exact impact of a
successful exploitation may vary. It generally ranges from data compromise to
the takeover of the cloud infrastructure.

==== Infrastructure takeover

By obtaining the right role, an attacker can gain control over part or all of
the Azure infrastructure. They can modify DNS settings, redirect traffic, or
launch malicious instances that can be used for various nefarious activities,
including launching DDoS attacks, hosting phishing websites, or distributing
malware. Malicious instances may also be used for resource-intensive tasks such
as cryptocurrency mining. 

This can result in legal liability, but also increased costs, degraded
performance, and potential service disruptions.

Furthermore, corporate Azure infrastructures are often connected to other
services and to the internal networks of the organization. Because of this,
cloud infrastructure is often used by attackers as a gateway to other assets.
Attackers can leverage this gateway to gain access to more services, to
compromise more business-critical data, and to cause more damage to the overall
infrastructure.

==== Compromise of sensitive data

If the affected service is used to store or process personally identifiable
information or other sensitive data, attackers with the correct role could be
able to access it. Depending on the type of data that is compromised, it could
lead to privacy violations, identity theft, financial loss, or other negative
outcomes.

In most cases, a company suffering a sensitive data compromise will face a
reputational loss when the security issue is publicly disclosed.

==== Financial loss

Financial losses can occur when a malicious user is able to use a paid
third-party-provided service. Each users assigned with a bad role will be
able to use it without limit to use the third party service to their own need,
including in a way that was not expected.

This additional use will lead to added costs with the Azure service provider.

Moreover, when rate or volume limiting is set up on the provider side, this
additional use can prevent the regular operation of the affected environment.
This might result in a partial denial of service for all legitimate users.
