== Why is this an issue?

A memory limit is a configuration that sets the maximum amount of memory that a
container can use. It is part of the resource management functionality of
Kubernetes, which allows for the control and allocation of computational
resources to containers.

When a memory limit is set for a container, Kubernetes ensures that the
container does not exceed the specified limit. If a container tries to use more
memory than its limit, the system will reclaim the excess memory, which could
lead to termination of processes within the container.

Without a memory limit, a container can potentially consume all available memory
on a node, which can lead to unpredictable behavior of the container or the node
itself. Therefore, defining a memory limit for each container is a best practice
in Kubernetes configurations. It helps in managing resources effectively and
ensures that a single container does not monopolize the memory resources of a
node.

=== What is the potential impact?

==== Denial of Service

Without a memory limit, a container can consume all available memory on a node.
This could lead to a Denial of Service (DoS) condition where other containers on
the same node are starved of memory. These containers may slow down, become
unresponsive, or even crash, affecting the overall functionality and
availability of applications running on them.

==== Inefficient Resource Allocation

When containers lack specified resource requests, the Kubernetes scheduler may
not make optimal decisions about pod placement and resource contention
management. This could result in the scheduler placing a resource-intensive pod
on a node with insufficient resources, leading to performance issues or even
node failure.

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

To avoid potential issues specify a memory limit for each container.

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,yaml,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  containers: # Noncompliant
    - name: web
      image: nginx
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,yaml,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web
      image: nginx
      resources:
        limits:
          memory: 100Mi
----

=== How does this work?

A limit can be set through the property `resources.limits.memory` of a
container. Alternatively, a default limit for a namespace can be set with
`LimitRange`. This will not prevent issues from being raised, since it is not
clear what containers it will apply to at the time of analysis. A separate limit
for each container is preferable.

== Resources

=== Documentation

* Kubernetes Documentation - https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/memory-default-namespace/[Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace]

=== Standards

* CWE - https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/770[CWE-770 - Allocation of Resources Without Limits or Throttling]


ifdef::env-github,rspecator-view[]

'''
== Implementation Specification
(visible only on this page)

=== Message

Specify a memory limit for this container.


=== Highlighting

* Highlight the `containers` property.


endif::env-github,rspecator-view[]
